<h1>Introduction:</h1>
<p color="black">When I first started out in the Computer Science program at SNHU I knew that software engineers wrote code, but that was the full extent of my understanding of the career field. This program has helped prepare me to enter the workforce with classes that taught me about team <b>collaboration, communication, data structures and algorithms, engineering, databases, and security</b>. I learned about working in an Agile environment and using git for project collaboration. I created a GitHub account while in the program to showcase some of my projects and collaborated on hackathons with peers from different parts of the world using GitHub.
	
On a more technical side, I dived deeper into data structures and algorithms, which I had no idea existed before my Data Structures and Algorithms course at SNHU. After successfully completing the course in C++, I continued exploring different implementations of common data structures in languages like Java and Python. I read up on Java generics to understand how Java’s implementation of common data structures can save me some time when solving programming challenges. Continuing to explore the topic on my own made it less intimidating and improved my analytical thinking to solve algorithmic problems.
	
While using the right combination of data structures and algorithms make software perform better, engineering a great user experience is another important aspect in delivering a great product. Software should be self-explanatory and the user should not be guessing what a button is for or what to do next. <b>Truly great software guides the user without them even realizing it</b>, because it flows from screen to screen and is intuitive. In order to create software like that I have to learn how to communicate with clients.
	
Understanding user requirements and communicating with stakeholders is essential to meeting the client’s requirements. Effective communication between developers, managers, and clients is the best way to assure everyone’s satisfaction with the final product. As an engineer, <b>it is necessary for me to be clear on what is expected of me and to be honest about the resources required to complete the project</b> within the deadline. Managers should be communicating these expectations to the clients without cutting corners or promising clients the impossible.
	
Aside from manipulating data and creating an intuitive UI, I also learned what constitutes some of the backend infrastructure of software. I learned how to store and manage data in both SQL and NoSQL databases, specifically MongoDB. I also <b>wrote REST APIs to perform CRUD operations in MongoDB and learned the common HTTP requests and responses</b>. Finally, I learned the common software vulnerabilities, such as buffer overflows in C++, and how to write code that is secure from malicious attacks.
	
To showcase the skills I gained during my time at SNHU I put together two projects showcasing my work over three categories. The first project, which is an Android Coffee Shop mobile ordering app, showcases my work in software engineering and design, as well as databases. I wanted to make this application as complete as possible and it shows my understanding of intuitive design made for the user’s convenience. It also employs Google’s Firebase database to manage user accounts and shows my understanding of managing user input and ensuring that the program does not crash because of an unexpected user action. The second project, which is a Java program designed to parse data from a CSV file, showcases my work in data structures and algorithms. This program uses the hash table data structure to hold information about the bids from the CSV file and is able to load, print, search, and delete bids within milliseconds.</p>
	
<h1>Part 1:</h1>
<h2>Code Review</h2>
<p color="black">The video below outlines the original two artifacts I enhanced as part of my Capstone project. In the video I will explain the modifications I will be making to the current code in order to showcase the skills I gained during my time at SNHU.</p>

<a href="https://youtu.be/ITTD7Dc7htk">Click here to watch the full code review!</a>

<h1>Part 2:</h1>
<h2>Data Structures and Algorithms</h2>
<p color="black">Below is a link to my final project for the category of data structures and algorithms. The artifact I chose for this enhancement was a C++ project where I implemented a linked list, an array, a binary tree, and a hash table from scratch. I wanted to select this project because it was very challenging for me when I first started in the program and I wanted to see how much more I have learned throughout my time at SNHU. I chose to implement the hash table program in Java instead of C++, using the same CSV file, but implementing the Hashtable class from Java generics, with my own hash function.
	
The run time for the artifact improved from using Java generic Hashtable against the C++ version, which is evident from observing the Time Elapsed when running different functions, like load, search, delete, and print all. I did want to implement a more complex hash function than the one I used for C++, but the one I used minimized collisions (as evident when printing all bids, which have different keys in the hashtable). 

One of the key improvements was my own ability to read and understand Java documentation and what methods I needed to use to code program behavior. I also was able to account for some corner cases when it comes to user input, which I did not account for in the original C++ app. Taking that into consideration showed me how far I have come from the start of the program to now in developing a software engineer’s ability to analyze what could go wrong and how to prevent the program from crashing.</p>

<a href="https://github.com/leylashakir/java-hashtable.git">Click here to view Java Hashtable on GitHub</a>.
